Update azidentity docs (#16061)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-go: sdk/azidentity/README.md

# Azure Identity Client Module for Go

> The Azure Identity module provides Azure Active Directory token authentication support across the Azure SDK. It
> includes a set of TokenCredential implementations which can be used with Azure SDK clients supporting token authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Azure Identity module provides Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) token authentication support across the Azure SDK. It includes a set of `TokenCredential` implementations, which can be used with Azure SDK clients supporting token authentication.
```

## Prerequisites

- an [Azure subscription](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/)
- a recent version of Go. This module supports the two most recent stable versions.

### Authenticating during local development

When debugging and executing code locally developers typically use their own accounts
to authenticate calls to Azure services. The `azidentity` module supports
authenticating through developer tools to simplify local development.

#### Authenticating via the Azure CLI

`DefaultAzureCredential` and `AzureCLICredential` can authenticate as the user

> signed in to the [Azure CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure). To sign in
> to the Azure CLI, run `az login`. On a system with a default web browser, the
> Azure CLI will launch the browser to authenticate a user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
signed in to the [Azure CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure). To sign in to the Azure CLI, run `az login`. On a system with a default web browser, the Azure CLI will launch the browser to authenticate a user.
```

![DefaultAzureCredential authentication flow](img/DAC_flow.PNG)

 - Environment - `DefaultAzureCredential` will read account information specified via [environment variables](#environment-variables) and use it to authenticate.
 - Managed Identity - If the app is deployed to an Azure host with managed identity enabled, `DefaultAzureCredential` will authenticate with it.
 - Azure CLI - If a user or service principal has authenticated via the Azure CLI `az login` command, `DefaultAzureCredential` will authenticate that identity.

> Note: `DefaultAzureCredential` is intended to simplify getting started with the SDK by handling common scenarios with reasonable default behaviors. Developers who want more control or whose scenario isn't served by the default settings should use other credential types.

## Managed Identity

`DefaultAzureCredential` and `ManagedIdentityCredential` support
[managed identity authentication](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview)
in any hosting environment which supports managed identities, such as (this list is not exhaustive):

> * [Azure Virtual Machines](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/how-to-use-vm-token)
> * [Azure App Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/app-service/overview-managed-identity?tabs=dotnet)
> * [Azure Kubernetes Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/aks/use-managed-identity)
> * [Azure Cloud Shell](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cloud-shell/msi-authorization)
> * [Azure Arc](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-arc/servers/managed-identity-authentication)
> * [Azure Service Fabric](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/service-fabric/concepts-managed-identity)

Reviewer: Alphabetize the list to make it easier to scan.

```suggestion
* [Azure App Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/app-service/overview-managed-identity?tabs=dotnet)
* [Azure Arc](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-arc/servers/managed-identity-authentication)
* [Azure Cloud Shell](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cloud-shell/msi-authorization)
* [Azure Kubernetes Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/aks/use-managed-identity)
* [Azure Service Fabric](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/service-fabric/concepts-managed-identity)
* [Azure Virtual Machines](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/how-to-use-vm-token)
```

## Examples

- [Authenticate with DefaultAzureCredential](#authenticate-with-defaultazurecredential "Authenticate with DefaultAzureCredential")
- [Define a custom authentication flow with ChainedTokenCredential](#define-a-custom-authentication-flow-with-chainedtokencredential "Define a custom authentication flow with ChainedTokenCredential")

### Authenticate with DefaultAzureCredential

This example demonstrates authenticating a client from the `armresources` module with `DefaultAzureCredential`.

```go
cred, err := azidentity.NewDefaultAzureCredential(nil)
if err != nil {
  // handle error
}

client := armresources.NewResourceGroupsClient("subscription ID", cred, nil)
```

See more how to configure the `DefaultAzureCredential` on your workstation or Azure in [Configure DefaultAzureCredential](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/wiki/Set-up-Your-Environment-for-Authentication#configure-defaultazurecredential).

> #### Specify a user assigned managed identity for `DefaultAzureCredential`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Specify a user-assigned managed identity for `DefaultAzureCredential`
```

To configure `DefaultAzureCredential` to authenticate a user-assigned managed identity, set the `AZURE_CLIENT_ID` environment variable to the identity's client ID.

### Define a custom authentication flow with `ChainedTokenCredential`

> `DefaultAzureCredential` is generally the quickest way to get started developing apps for Azure. For more advanced scenarios, [ChainedTokenCredential][chain_cred_ref] links multiple credential instances to be tried sequentially when authenticating. It will try each chained credential in turn until one provides a token or fails to authenticate due to
> an error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`DefaultAzureCredential` is generally the quickest way to get started developing apps for Azure. For more advanced scenarios, [ChainedTokenCredential][chain_cred_ref] links multiple credential instances to be tried sequentially when authenticating. It will try each chained credential in turn until one provides a token or fails to authenticate due to an error.
```

The following example demonstrates creating a credential, which will attempt to authenticate using managed identity. It will fall back to authenticating via the Azure CLI when a managed identity is unavailable.

```go
managedId, err := azidentity.NewManagedIdentityCredential(nil)
if err != nil {
  // handle error
}
azCLI, err := azidentity.NewAzureCLICredential(nil)
if err != nil {
  // handle error
}
chain, err := azidentity.NewChainedTokenCredential([]azcore.TokenCredential{managedID, azCLI})
if err != nil {
  // handle error
}

client := armresources.NewResourceGroupsClient("subscription ID", chain, nil)
```

## Credential Types

### Authenticating Azure Hosted Applications

> |credential|usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Credential|Usage
```

|-|-

> |[DefaultAzureCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#DefaultAzureCredential)|Simplified authentication experience for getting started developing Azure apps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|[DefaultAzureCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#DefaultAzureCredential)|Simplified authentication experience for getting started with developing Azure apps
```

|[ChainedTokenCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#ChainedTokenCredential)|Define custom authentication flows, composing multiple credentials
|[EnvironmentCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#EnvironmentCredential)|Authenticate a service principal or user configured by environment variables
|[ManagedIdentityCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#ManagedIdentityCredential)|Authenticate the managed identity of an Azure resource

### Authenticating Service Principals

> |credential|usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Credential|Usage
```

|-|-
|[ClientSecretCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#ClientSecretCredential)|Authenticate a service principal with a secret
|[ClientCertificateCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#ClientCertificateCredential)|Authenticate a service principal with a certificate

### Authenticating Users

> |credential|usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Credential|Usage
```

|-|-
|[InteractiveBrowserCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#InteractiveBrowserCredential)|Interactively authenticate a user with the default web browser
|[DeviceCodeCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#DeviceCodeCredential)|Interactively authenticate a user on a device with limited UI
|[UsernamePasswordCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#UsernamePasswordCredential)|Authenticate a user with a username and password
|[AuthorizationCodeCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#AuthorizationCodeCredential)|Authenticate a user with a previously obtained authorization code

### Authenticating via Development Tools

> |credential|usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Credential|Usage
```

|-|-
|[AzureCLICredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#AzureCLICredential)|Authenticate as the user signed in to the Azure CLI

## Environment Variables

> `DefaultAzureCredential` and `EnvironmentCredential` can be configured with
> environment variables. Each type of authentication requires values for specific
> variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`DefaultAzureCredential` and `EnvironmentCredential` can be configured with environment variables. Each type of authentication requires values for specific variables:
```

The `azidentity` module focuses on OAuth authentication with Azure Active
Directory (AAD). It offers a variety of credential types capable of acquiring

> an AAD access token. See [Credential Types](#credential-types "Credential Types")
> below for a list of this module's credential types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an Azure AD access token. See [Credential Types](#credential-types "Credential Types") for a list of this module's credential types.
```

### DefaultAzureCredential

> `DefaultAzureCredential` is appropriate for most applications which will deploy
> to Azure because it combines common production credentials with development credentials.
> It attempts to authenticate via the following mechanisms in this order, stopping when
> one succeeds:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`DefaultAzureCredential` is appropriate for most apps that will be deployed to Azure. It combines common production credentials with development credentials. It attempts to authenticate via the following mechanisms in this order, stopping when one succeeds:
```

![DefaultAzureCredential authentication flow](img/DAC_flow.PNG)

 - Environment - `DefaultAzureCredential` will read account information specified via [environment variables](#environment-variables) and use it to authenticate.

>  - Managed Identity - if the application is deployed to an Azure host with managed identity enabled, `DefaultAzureCredential` will authenticate with it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Managed Identity - If the app is deployed to an Azure host with managed identity enabled, `DefaultAzureCredential` will authenticate with it.
```

>  - Azure CLI - if a user or service principal has authenticated via the Azure CLI `az login` command, `DefaultAzureCredential` will authenticate that identity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Azure CLI - If a user or service principal has authenticated via the Azure CLI `az login` command, `DefaultAzureCredential` will authenticate that identity.
```

> Note: `DefaultAzureCredential` is intended to simplify getting started with the SDK by handling common scenarios with reasonable default behaviors. Developers who want more control or whose scenario isn't served by the default settings should use other credential types.

## Managed Identity

> `DefaultAzureCredential` and `ManagedIdentityCredential` support

Reviewer: Add line break here.

```suggestion

`DefaultAzureCredential` and `ManagedIdentityCredential` support
```

Reviewer: Yes

* [Azure Arc](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-arc/servers/managed-identity-authentication)
* [Azure Service Fabric](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/service-fabric/concepts-managed-identity)

## Examples
- [Authenticate with DefaultAzureCredential](#authenticate-with-defaultazurecredential "Authenticate with DefaultAzureCredential")
- [Define a custom authentication flow with ChainedTokenCredential](#define-a-custom-authentication-flow-with-chainedtokencredential "Define a custom authentication flow with ChainedTokenCredential")

### Authenticate with DefaultAzureCredential
This example demonstrates authenticating a client from the `armresources` module with `DefaultAzureCredential`.

```go
cred, err := azidentity.NewDefaultAzureCredential(nil)
if err != nil {
  // handle error
}

client := armresources.NewResourceGroupsClient("subscription ID", cred, nil)
```

See more how to configure the `DefaultAzureCredential` on your workstation or Azure in [Configure DefaultAzureCredential](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/wiki/Set-up-Your-Environment-for-Authentication#configure-defaultazurecredential).

> #### Specify a user assigned managed identity for `DefaultAzureCredential`
> To configure `DefaultAzureCredential` to authenticate a user assigned managed identity, set the
> environment variable `AZURE_CLIENT_ID` to the identity's client ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Specify a user assigned managed identity for `DefaultAzureCredential`

To configure `DefaultAzureCredential` to authenticate a user-assigned managed identity, set the `AZURE_CLIENT_ID` environment variable to the identity's client ID.
```

### Define a custom authentication flow with `ChainedTokenCredential`

> `DefaultAzureCredential` is generally the quickest way to get started developing
> applications for Azure. For more advanced scenarios,
> [ChainedTokenCredential][chain_cred_ref] links multiple credential instances
> to be tried sequentially when authenticating. It will try each chained
> credential in turn until one provides a token or fails to authenticate due to
> an error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`DefaultAzureCredential` is generally the quickest way to get started developing apps for Azure. For more advanced scenarios, [ChainedTokenCredential][chain_cred_ref] links multiple credential instances to be tried sequentially when authenticating. It will try each chained credential in turn until one provides a token or fails to authenticate due to
an error.
```

> The following example demonstrates creating a credential which will attempt to
> authenticate using managed identity, and fall back to authenticating via the
> Azure CLI when a managed identity is unavailable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates creating a credential, which will attempt to authenticate using managed identity. It will fall back to authenticating via the Azure CLI when a managed identity is unavailable.
```

```go
managedId, err := azidentity.NewManagedIdentityCredential(nil)
if err != nil {
  // handle error
}
azCLI, err := azidentity.NewAzureCLICredential(nil)
if err != nil {
  // handle error
}
chain, err := azidentity.NewChainedTokenCredential([]azcore.TokenCredential{managedID, azCLI})
if err != nil {
  // handle error
}

client := armresources.NewResourceGroupsClient("subscription ID", chain, nil)
```

## Credential Types

### Authenticating Azure Hosted Applications

|credential|usage
|-|-

> |[DefaultAzureCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#DefaultAzureCredential)|simplified authentication experience for getting started developing Azure applications
> |[ChainedTokenCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#ChainedTokenCredential)|define custom authentication flows composing multiple credentials
> |[EnvironmentCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#EnvironmentCredential)|authenticate a service principal or user configured by environment variables
> |[ManagedIdentityCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#ManagedIdentityCredential)|authenticate the managed identity of an Azure resource

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|[DefaultAzureCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#DefaultAzureCredential)|Simplified authentication experience for getting started developing Azure apps
|[ChainedTokenCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#ChainedTokenCredential)|Define custom authentication flows, composing multiple credentials
|[EnvironmentCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#EnvironmentCredential)|Authenticate a service principal or user configured by environment variables
|[ManagedIdentityCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#ManagedIdentityCredential)|Authenticate the managed identity of an Azure resource
```

### Authenticating Service Principals

|credential|usage
|-|-

> |[ClientSecretCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#ClientSecretCredential)|authenticate a service principal with a secret
> |[ClientCertificateCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#ClientCertificateCredential)|authenticate a service principal with a certificate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|[ClientSecretCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#ClientSecretCredential)|Authenticate a service principal with a secret
|[ClientCertificateCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#ClientCertificateCredential)|Authenticate a service principal with a certificate
```

### Authenticating Users

|credential|usage
|-|-

> |[InteractiveBrowserCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#InteractiveBrowserCredential)|interactively authenticate a user with the default web browser
> |[DeviceCodeCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#DeviceCodeCredential)|interactively authenticate a user on a device with limited UI
> |[UsernamePasswordCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#UsernamePasswordCredential)|authenticate a user with a username and password
> |[AuthorizationCodeCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#AuthorizationCodeCredential)|authenticate a user with a previously obtained authorization code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|[InteractiveBrowserCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#InteractiveBrowserCredential)|Interactively authenticate a user with the default web browser
|[DeviceCodeCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#DeviceCodeCredential)|Interactively authenticate a user on a device with limited UI
|[UsernamePasswordCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#UsernamePasswordCredential)|Authenticate a user with a username and password
|[AuthorizationCodeCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#AuthorizationCodeCredential)|Authenticate a user with a previously obtained authorization code
```

### Authenticating via Development Tools

|credential|usage
|-|-

> |[AzureCLICredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#AzureCLICredential)|authenticate as the user signed in to the Azure CLI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|[AzureCLICredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#AzureCLICredential)|Authenticate as the user signed in to the Azure CLI
```

## Environment Variables

> DefaultAzureCredential and EnvironmentCredential can be configured with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`DefaultAzureCredential` and `EnvironmentCredential` can be configured with
```

### Error Handling

> Credentials return an `error` when they fail to authenticate or lack data they require to authenticate. See the [troubleshooting guide](https://aka.ms/azsdk/go/identity/troubleshoot) for guidance on resolving errors from specific credential types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Credentials return an `error` when they fail to authenticate or lack data they require to authenticate. For guidance on resolving errors from specific credential types, see the [troubleshooting guide](https://aka.ms/azsdk/go/identity/troubleshoot).
```

For more details on handling specific Azure Active Directory errors please refer to the
Azure Active Directory
[error code documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/reference-aadsts-error-codes).

### Logging

This module uses the classification-based logging implementation in `azcore`. To enable console logging for all SDK modules, set `AZURE_SDK_GO_LOGGING` to `all`. Use the `azcore/log` package to control log event output or to enable logs for `azidentity` only. For example:
```go
import azlog "github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azcore/log"

// print log output to stdout
azlog.SetListener(func(event azlog.Event, s string) {
    fmt.Println(s)
})

// include only azidentity credential logs
azlog.SetEvents(azidentity.EventCredential)
```

Credentials log basic information only, such as `GetToken` success or failure and errors. These log entries don't contain authentication secrets but may contain sensitive information.

## Next steps

> Client and management modules listed on the [Azure SDK release page](https://azure.github.io/azure-sdk/releases/latest/go.html) support authenticating with `azidentity` credential types. You can learn more about using these libraries in their documentation, which is linked from the release page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Client and management modules listed on the [Azure SDK releases page](https://azure.github.io/azure-sdk/releases/latest/go.html) support authenticating with `azidentity` credential types. You can learn more about using these libraries in their documentation, which is linked from the release page.
```

### Error Handling

> Credentials return an `error` when they fail to authenticate or lack data they require
> to authenticate. See the [troubleshooting guide](https://aka.ms/azsdk/go/identity/troubleshoot)
> for guidance on resolving errors from specific credential types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Credentials return an `error` when they fail to authenticate or lack data they require to authenticate. See the [troubleshooting guide](https://aka.ms/azsdk/go/identity/troubleshoot) for guidance on resolving errors from specific credential types.
```

For more details on handling specific Azure Active Directory errors please refer to the
Azure Active Directory
[error code documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/reference-aadsts-error-codes).

### Logging

> This module uses the classification based logging implementation in `azcore`. To enable
> console logging for all SDK modules, set `AZURE_SDK_GO_LOGGING` to `all`. Use the azcore/log
> package to control log event output, or to enable logs for `azidentity` only. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This module uses the classification-based logging implementation in `azcore`. To enable console logging for all SDK modules, set `AZURE_SDK_GO_LOGGING` to `all`. Use the `azcore/log` package to control log event output or to enable logs for `azidentity` only. For example:
```

```go
import azlog "github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azcore/log"

// print log output to stdout
azlog.SetListener(func(event azlog.Event, s string) {
    fmt.Println(s)
})

// include only azidentity credential logs
azlog.SetEvents(azidentity.EventCredential)
```

> Credentials log basic information only, such as `GetToken` success or failure and errors.
> These log entries do not contain authentication secrets but may contain sensitive information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Credentials log basic information only, such as `GetToken` success or failure and errors. These log entries don't contain authentication secrets but may contain sensitive information.
```

## Next steps

> Client and management modules listed on the
> [Azure SDK release page](https://azure.github.io/azure-sdk/releases/latest/go.html)
> support authenticating with `azidentity` credential types. You can learn more about
> using these libraries in their documentation, which is linked from the release page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Client and management modules listed on the [Azure SDK release page](https://azure.github.io/azure-sdk/releases/latest/go.html) support authenticating with `azidentity` credential types. You can learn more about using these libraries in their documentation, which is linked from the release page.
```
